prep release: v1.13.1 (#2869)
apollographql/router: CHANGELOG.md

This project adheres to [Semantic Versioning v2.0.0](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

# [1.13.1] - 2023-03-28

## 🚀 Features

### Router homepage now supports redirecting to Apollo Studio Explorer ([PR #2282](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/2282))

> In order to replicate the landing-page experience (called "homepage" on the Router) which was available in Apollo Gateway, we've introduced a `graph_ref` option to the `homepage` configuration.  This allows users to be (optionally, as as sticky preference) _redirected_ from the Apollo Router homepage directly to the correct graph in Apollo Studio Explorer.

Reviewer: I think this is broken at the moment and we should fix it. Currently I get a blank page if `graph_ref` isn't specified.

Author: Should be fixed via https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/2870 which has been merged into this PR via https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/2869/commits/54102d74e1ef72836236fa8ee4e52f653aefe6e4

Since users may have their own preference on the value, we do not automatically infer the graph reference (e.g., `graph@variant`), instead requiring that the user set it to the value of their choice.

For example:

```yaml
homepage:
  graph_ref: my-org-graph@production
```

By [@flyboarder](https://github.com/flyboarder) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/2282

### New metric for subgraph-requests, including "retry" and "break" events ([Issue #2518](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/2518)), ([Issue #2736](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/2736))

> We now emit a `apollo_router_subgraph_request_retry_total` metric from the Router.  The metric also offers observability into _aborted_ requests via a `status = "aborted"` attribute on the metric.

Author: Done via https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/2871, and I'll update this changelog with:

```
We now emit a `apollo_router_http_request_retry_total` metric from the Router.  The metric also offers observability into _aborted_ requests via an `status = "aborted"` attribute on the metric.
```

> We now emit a `apollo_router_subgraph_request_retry_total` metric from the Router.  The metric also offers observability into _aborted_ requests via a `status = "aborted"` attribute on the metric.

Author: ```suggestion
We now emit a `apollo_router_http_request_retry_total` metric from the Router.  The metric also offers observability into _aborted_ requests via an `status = "aborted"` attribute on the metric.
```

By [@Geal](https://github.com/Geal) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/2829

### New `receive_body` span represents time consuming a client's request body ([Issue #2518](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/2518)), ([Issue #2736](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/2736))

> When running with **debug-level** instrumentation, the Router now emits a `receive_body` span which tracks spent receiving the request body from the client.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When running with **debug-level** instrumentation, the Router now emits a `receive_body` span which tracks time spent receiving the request body from the client.
```
